We warmly welcome you to another edition of J. W. Broadcasting.
And this broadcast is historic, in what ways?
Well, think about this.
The first broadcast on this station was in October of 2014.
It is hard to believe, but seven months have already flown by.
That means that each member of the governing body has had the opportunity to host one of
our monthly programs, and we are now starting over again.
But what is truly historic about this month's program is that the governing body has approved
the J. W. Broadcasting to be broadcast, now listen to this, in over 40 different languages.
While these are not all available at this time, many additional languages are ready for
viewing this month.
The list of languages can be found on the tv.jw.org homepage by clicking on the language
symbol at the top right hand corner of the screen.
That takes you to the page with the various languages that can be selected.
This month, we will find out what Bible principle can help us make a sound decision when forced
to choose between our seconder job and theocratic activities.
So to what links does Jehovah's organization go to reach the blind with a good news?
This documentary will assure us of Jehovah's love for everyone, no matter what our circumstances
in life might be.
And we have a music video about giving our time and resources to Jehovah.
Yes, this is the May program of J. W. Broadcasting.
The governing body has asked me to use Proverbs 39 as the theme for the message they would
like to be shared with the entire household of faith this month.
Let's read that text together.
Proverbs chapter 3, verse 9.
And after we read it, we want to consider what are your valuable things.
And what does the verse mean by giving the first fruits?
Let's read Proverbs chapter 3, verse 9, honor Jehovah with your valuable things, with
the first fruits of all your produce.
Let's first talk a little bit about what it means to offer our first fruits.
In Bible times, it meant the earliest fruits of a season.
So way before an Israelite knew what kind of a harvest he would have, whether it would
be a bumper crop or very meager returns with full faith and confidence he was to give
the first fruits to Jehovah, not just leftovers at the end of the harvest season.
Furthermore, the Hebrew word for first fruit is in the sense of being the best of that
early season.
So the idea conveyed is not only first chronologically, but also first in quality.
In fact, Exodus 23, 19 says this, it says, you are to bring the best of the first ripe fruits
of your ground to the house of Jehovah, your God.
The best of the first fruits would truly honor Jehovah.
And the Greek term for first fruits comes from a root word, having the basic meaning
of primacy or pre-eminence.
Again, the idea, the best we have.
Jehovah's 3.9 also indicated that we can honor our show respect and appreciation for
Jehovah with our valuable things.
And as stated at Revelation 4.11, Jehovah is truly worthy of all the honor we can give
him.
Not only do we owe it to him, because he is our creator, he is worthy of it because of
the kind of God he is.
But what are the valuable things with which we can honor Jehovah?
What first might come to mind are our material possessions, our finances.
Well that is true.
And we want to talk about this a little bit later.
But there are many other valuables that a Christian can offer to Jehovah to give him
the honor that he is worthy of.
For example, our time, Mr. Benjamin Franklin, a scientist and statesman once said,
do not squander time for that as the stuff life is made of.
Yes, time is a valuable resource.
And many of you dear ones are offering your valuable time in the ministry each month.
Some of you are able to give to Jehovah 70 or more hours a month in the ministry as
regular pioneers.
While others of us are not in a position to spend that amount of time in the field ministry,
we rejoice with those who can.
And interestingly, under the law given to Moses, the quantity of first fruits to be offered
was not fixed.
It was left to the generosity and circumstances of the giver.
He was to give his best though, no matter how much or how little that proved to be.
No matter what the amount then, can we give the first fruits of our time in the ministry?
We do this by scheduling some time early in the month, not just leftovers the last few
days of the month.
Remember, we give Jehovah our first fruits.
And other valuable things do we possess that we can give to Jehovah thus honoring him.
Well many have construction skills and other talents that they are willing to offer for
the building of kingdom halls, assembly halls, remote translation offices, and branch facilities,
including the large world headquarters complex in Warwick, New York.
Jehovah is magnified by such voluntary contributions of energy and skills.
These are truly valuable things.
But now, I would like to address the valuable things that may have first come to mind.
Or financial giving and support.
As you know, for over 130 years, this organization has never solicited for funds.
And it is certainly not going to start now.
We don't send out monthly statements to each of Jehovah's Witnesses specifying a dollar amount
that should be submitted to finance the work worldwide.
Most donations, in fact, are contributed anonymously.
Over the years, I have told various Bible students that a person could attend our meetings
for 20 years and never put a penny in the contribution box.
And we would not know it.
Jehovah, of course, would know it, but we would not, because the donations are anonymous,
but from the heart. We don't know who gives what, but for a certainty.
Any donations received do not line anyone's pockets and are not misappropriated.
They are all used in supporting theocratic endeavors worldwide.
As described in Matthew 24, 45 through 47, the governing body prayerfully and sincerely
endeavors to be not only the faithful slave, but also the discrete slave in wisely managing
the master's resources. And please, dear brothers and sisters, pray for Jehovah to help us
to be successful in being not only faithful, but also discrete.
But often a member of the governing body will be heard to say,
in spending Jehovah's money, we have to be more careful than we are in spending our own money.
And that is truly how we feel about the matter. Yet, as you can well imagine,
millions of dollars are required each month to finance the colossal kingdom work
that is being supported by this organization in some 239 lands.
What is all of the financial support come from? Largely from you, dear brothers and sisters.
Most funds come from what you voluntarily put in the contribution box in your kingdom hall.
Yes, that little box with a slot that is labeled worldwide work is primarily what
finances all of the theocratic initiatives that have been implemented.
Of course, there are many other ways to contribute, as explained usually,
in the November issue of the watch tower each year.
Sometimes we may feel a little shy to talk about the financial needs of the organization.
That is understandable, because we in no way want to be categorized with other organizations,
religious and otherwise, that coerce their supporters to donate.
However, because all of us have the privilege to donate funds,
we would like to let you know something about our current situation.
Then you can respond as your heart impels you.
As you might have sensed, I am not shy about this subject.
And why not?
It is because we have many scriptural examples of Jehovah's faithful servants
making known the financial needs of the congregation.
Only when supporters of the kingdom know the needs, can they respond accordingly.
For example, turn with me, please, to Exodus chapter 35.
Now, think about this as you're turning there.
The Israelites were in Sinai.
They were marching through a wilderness.
They did not have fields or businesses with money flowing in.
They just had what they had brought with them when leaving Egypt.
Nevertheless, Jehovah instructed them to build a place of worship.
Was Jehovah shy about letting the people know about the material needs?
Well, read with me, Exodus 35 verses 4 and 5.
Moses then said to the entire assembly of the Israelites,
this is what Jehovah has commanded.
Now, what Moses commanded?
This is what Jehovah has commanded.
Take up a contribution for Jehovah from among yourselves.
Let everyone with a willing heart bring a contribution for Jehovah.
Gold, silver, copper.
You see, the people would not have known this need if Jehovah had not informed them.
Very interesting, is it not?
The governing body very much feels the urgency of accomplishing as much as we possibly can
in behalf of Kingdom interest knowing that the great day of Jehovah is dear.
So, in an effort to keep you informed of the support that is needed for this great work,
I have the following information to share.
We have looked forward to this next fiscal year and projected the expenditures
for all of the theocratic initiatives we are scheduling.
In doing the math, we found that the amount of money flowing out will be much greater
than the amount of money that we have coming in at this time.
Well, why is that?
Does this represent a lack of appreciation for spiritual things?
No, absolutely not.
To the contrary, we are witnessing unprecedented enthusiasm among the brotherhood
for all the spiritual bounty that is coming our way.
We have up-to-date Bibles and an abundance of printed literature.
And there's so much appreciation for the new and continually improving JW.org website.
From around the world, we receive letters thanking the governing body for JW Broadcasting.
Many comment that it has brought us closer together as a people.
And as mentioned, starting this month, JW Broadcasting is available
in multiple languages. We are thrilled about this development.
There is also excitement about public witnessing using literature cards
and with such great success.
No, the financial circumstance has nothing to do with a lack of spirituality or appreciation.
However, there are some facts that we want to make you aware of.
For one thing, the financial needs in the field have accelerated at a pace unlike any time in the
recent past. A recent analysis of the need for Kingdom Halls here in the United States showed
that some 1,600 new Kingdom Halls or major renovations are needed, not some time in the future,
but right now. And worldwide, we are in need of more than 14,000 places of worship,
not including ongoing future growth. In the past 15 years, 30,000 Kingdom Halls have been built.
Now, if you figure that out, that average is about 2,000 Kingdom Halls every year.
But in an effort to relieve the serious backlog more quickly,
we intend to overwilling to complete 3,000 Kingdom Hall projects every year going forward.
Now, that's a 50% increase. Additionally, adjustments are being made to simplify the Kingdom Hall
design in order to accelerate the construction schedule and to save funds. Though the design will
be simplified, the sheer number of Kingdom Halls requires considerably more funds in the budget
than in times past. Additionally, please think about this. Today, how many publishing companies print
publications in the many languages that Jehovah's Organization does? The answer? None. And why is that?
Is because they cannot make a financial profit? We, however, are accelerating our method
of translating publications into indigenous languages. This involves building or purchasing
regional translation offices or RTOs. These will be strategically located in the part of a country
with the highest concentration of native speakers of the language.
Providing these structures in various regions of a country reduces the need for costly
construction expansion at the local branch office. But in the next two years, however,
upwards, now think about this, 170 of such facilities. RTOs are needed.
Depending on the country and the cost of materials, an RTO can cost for about $1 million
to several million dollars each. Hence, we have another reason we need to increase our finances.
We just felt that you, dear brothers and sisters, needed to be made aware of these expenditures
that we're facing in the coming months and years. We also have heard from Circuit Overseers
and others that some of the brothers and sisters may have a misconception about some of the
recent policy changes that have been instituted. For example, all congregations that had a kingdom
hall or assembly hall loan to pay off were informed that their mortgages were canceled.
Now, if you think about that, it's amazing, isn't? All their loans were canceled.
Can you imagine a bank telling homeowners that all their loans were canceled
and that they should merely send in to the bank each month whatever they can afford?
Only in Jehovah's organization could such a thing happen.
However, according to some of our Circuit Overseers, some of us took this to mean that the organization
had a surplus of funds and thus took this action as if the loans did not need to be reimbursed.
Could this misconception have affected the amount that some have chosen to donate each month?
In actuality, the mortgages were canceled so as not to be a hardship on some congregations and
circuits. The policy was founded on the scriptural principle stated in 2 Corinthians 8. Please turn
there with me. In an effort to help fellow Christians who were facing financial hardship in the
first century, an arrangement had been put in place to accept contributions from others to help
offset the deficiency. About a year later, Paul is again writing to the Corinthians about this
policy of contributing to offset the financial needs of others. Now, please read with me 2 Corinthians
chapter 8, and we're going to read verses 10 through 15. Here, the Apostle Paul,
under inspiration, said this, verse 10, and in this, I give my opinion, this is for your benefit
seeing that already a year ago, you're not only initiated the action that is of contributing,
but also showed your desire to do it. So now, also complete what you started to do,
so that your readiness to act or contribute may be completed according to, now notice,
the means you have available. For if the readiness is there first, it is especially acceptable
according to what a person has, not according to what a person does not have.
For I do not want to make it easy for others, but difficult for you, but that by means of
and equalizing, your surplus at the present time might offset their need, so that their surplus
might also offset your deficiency, that there may be an equalizing. Just as it is written,
the person with much did not have too much, and the person with little did not have too little.
So that was the scriptural basis for canceling all loan repayments. It was not because the organization
had a large surplus of funds and thus could, quote, afford to cancel these mortgages.
As explained at the time, it was to equalize the reimbursement of such expenditures over the
entire brotherhood. Some businessmen in the secular world might think this was a disastrous policy
change. However, we know the spirit of Jehovah's fateful servants. We all feel privileged to be able
to help the growing brotherhood to have comfortable places to meet and praise Jehovah.
Think about this comparison. Back in 1990, when the decision was made to distribute our literature
free of charge, some within the organization and many outside the organization thought this
would be financial suicide. However, you dear brothers and sisters have proved those predictions
completely wrong. Jesus said, at Matthew 1119, all the same. Wisdom is proved righteous by its works.
Our individual voluntary donations have combined to take care of the costs associated with
producing our literature. And we are confident that the same will prove true regarding the decision
to cancel all kingdom hall and assembly hall loans. So instead of conveying the message that the
organization needed less in the way of donations, the intent was really just the opposite.
But we have confidence that our hearts will be moved to contribute what we can each month
to offset the necessary expense of building new meeting places for our brothers worldwide.
Another misimpression that has been brought to our attention is that the sale of property in
New York City means that fewer donations are needed. To help put things in proper perspective,
however, selling one of the significant properties in New York really only covered the operating
expenses for the worldwide work for a few weeks. Now that's one significant property.
And in actuality, the sale of property in New York City is basically only financing the
construction of world headquarters in Warwick and the purchase of other properties that are
needed to facilitate the move from Brooklyn in the future. But on top of that, as mentioned,
we are planning on accelerating the building of kingdom halls and remote translation offices
in coming years. It is our desire, Jehovah willing, to hold to the accelerated schedule for these
projects, if at all possible, rather than having to scale back such progress because of a lack of
available funds. Again, we are not in any way desirous of creating a hardship on anyone.
However, we felt that if you knew the circumstances accurately, you would apply
Proverbs 327 to the situation. There, we are encouraged not to withhold what is good,
but then the scripture adds, if it is within our power to help.
And I might mention that this is true even of publishers in less affluent countries.
It is encouraging to note that even in lands with limited resources, the very poor contribute
to the cost of their kingdom hall and its maintenance. We're all Jehovah's United people.
Even if we do not have much materially, if our heart is willing, there is usually something
we can do. Even if it is merely offering two small coins of very little value as the poor widow
did. And how did Jesus feel about her for doing this? He highly praised her in Mark 1242,
through 44. And if we think about it, a small donation from each of many of Jehovah's people
adds up to a large amount of dedicated funds that can be used powerfully by Jehovah's organization.
Please turn back to Exodus chapter 35. As mentioned, Jehovah was not shy about informing his people
of the financial needs for true worship. But once the need was known, what was the initial result?
Exodus 35, and let's read verse 21 and the first part of verse 22.
Then everyone whose heart impaled him and everyone whose spirit incited him came and brought
their contribution for Jehovah to be used for the tent of meeting, for all his service,
and for the holy garments. They kept coming, the men, along with the women, each with a willing heart.
And what were the final results? Well, look at Exodus chapter 36. And we're going to read
verse 7. Let's see, did Jehovah have to scale back on the amount of work because of the lack of
material support? Verse 7, the goods were enough for all the work to be done. And more than enough.
Yes, when the hearts of Jehovah's people are motivated, wonderful things happen. The governing
body wanted to make you aware of the financial needs in the world field. And we're confident
that with this knowledge, your appreciative hearts will move you to do what you can to support
the work at hand. Yes, we can honor Jehovah with our valuable things, including the financial
support of true worship. But as we mentioned at the outset, our valuable things include much more.
For example, our time as we talked about spending the ministry.
May we all give our individual first fruits the best we can do with our present circumstances.
Some are honoring Jehovah by moving to places where the need for kingdom preachers is greater.
That's commendable. We spoke of giving our skills and energy to theocratic construction projects.
We appreciate all of you who have honored Jehovah in this way in the past tirelessly working with
regional building committees and in the lands with limited resources program.
And we thank all of you who will continue to support the construction of buildings that will bring
praise to Jehovah. What other valuable things bring honor to Jehovah? Many thousands are learning new
languages to be able to help spread the good news to yet more deserving ones. It may well be,
now think about this, that this organization has the most multilingual speakers of any organization
on earth. That's amazing, isn't it? Still others honor Jehovah by expanding themselves on hospital
liaison committees and patient visitation groups. Though you do so, often behind the scenes with no
limelight, be assured that those you help know what you do. And the sovereign of the universe
sees you and receives your gift honorably. It is just as stated at Hebrew 610,
Jehovah does not forget your work and the love you showed for his name by ministering and continuing
to minister to the holy ones. There are also circuit overseers and Bethel family members around the
earth who give their best to Jehovah daily. Some of you are faithful caregivers of sick or elderly
servants of Jehovah. There is a wear factor that is hard to quantify, but know that your God accepts
such a gift of love with full knowledge of what you have done. Well, at this point, I will borrow
the words of Paul, as he enumerated in Hebrews chapter 11, many, many women of faith.
But then said, as recorded in verse 32, and what more will I say?
For time will fail me if I go on to relate about, and then he listed others who had
honored Jehovah with their valuable things. Similarly, time would fail us if we tried to enumerate
all of you dear ones and all of them many ways that you are honoring Jehovah with your valuable
things. But may Jehovah continue to bless each and every one of you who are doing so.
We have now touched on some of the ways that we can bring praise to Jehovah and support our
dear brothers and sisters worldwide. In a few minutes, we will see some real life examples
that highlight the results of our giving spirit. But first, we would like to share with you
a summary of how the organization uses our donations. In ancient times, when an Israelite made a
heartfelt offering to support the temple, that offering was referred to as a gift in hand to Jehovah.
Today, in Kingdom Halls of Jehovah's Witnesses around the world, there are small boxes marked
for voluntary contributions. When we give our valuable things, where does it actually go?
Each year, hundreds of thousands become our new brothers and sisters.
To accommodate our growing numbers, funds are provided to help construct new places of
worship, as well as branch facilities all over the world. One thing that I really appreciate
about being here is to see family heads, fathers and husbands choose to use their vacation time,
so thank you to the families and the congregations that support all of this and us to be here.
But what's just as impressive is seeing millions of brothers and sisters voluntarily give
them their funds so that we can keep building. Just that in itself is an amazing act of
Job's Holy Spirit. Large doors leading to greater activity are being opened by means of
theocratic schools. Training is provided to help those enrolled to develop spiritually and take
a zealous lead in the evangelizing work. When you think of the organization and the education
the divine education that it provides, there is no government on earth today that educates
citizens like the kingdom. It has strengthened into my relationship with Jehovah in ways I never
considered before. The training is wonderful and motivates spiritual growth.
Voluntary contributions help support the thousands of special full-time servants worldwide.
These include Bethelites. While working in the printer it's abundantly clear that none of
this would happen without Jehovah's support shown by what the friends can give. I love my assignment
and serve with the knowledge that my sacrifice wouldn't be possible without the sacrifice of
brothers and sisters in the field. Also included are missionaries traveling overseas,
international servants and special pioneers. All that support makes it possible and makes
our assignment a great joy and a privilege something that we look forward to. Each and every
week, each and every month, each and every year that we're able to devote our full-time efforts
in preaching the good news of the kingdom. It allows us to be here so that we can help as many
people as possible who do want to learn about Jehovah. Every year we look forward to receiving
rich spiritual gems at our conventions. Funds are provided for equipment and other needs to help
everything run as smoothly as possible. It was a delight this year to see how technology was used to
promote the unity. Having the different cities involved were video streaming to them for the key
talks by governing body members and their helpers, received tremendous response from those cities.
We seen more people in their seats during the program because they were afraid to get up even
for a moment because they might miss something that was special. When disaster strikes, your donations
help give immediate relief for our brothers and sisters in need, food, clothing, building materials
and much more are shipped over as quickly as possible. I have come to really appreciate Jehovah's
organization. No other organization can compare in how it provides support in such a loving way.
I know now, you know, like Jehovah, this look after his people, so I'm really grateful for that
and I've been praying and giving thanks. Yes, all our contributions have a meaningful share
in supporting King Dementra's worldwide. Each donation is like a gift in hand to our heavenly
father, Jehovah. When we give from our heart, we are expressing our love for him and that is the
best gift we can give him. Our organization is truly multifaceted. The brotherhood is constantly
giving of themselves literally day and night when we consider the global effort that is involved.
At times though, some family heads face a dilemma that involves making a decision about how they
will support their family without putting themselves in spiritual jeopardy. You're about to meet a brother
who was in a quandary as to what to do. What Bible principle helped him to continue to put Kingdom
Dementra's first? Let's find out. I've always enjoyed my work and even the people I worked with.
It's hard to balance work and meetings, but since I was baptized, I've always done my best
to be there. My wife is a great support and we work hard to teach our children. They've been my
greatest joy. I want to make sure that they're cared for. I believed that if I worked hard enough,
I'd always be able to provide for my family, but my boss wanted more than I was willing to give.
He insisted that I work Sundays during my meeting. I needed this job. My wife and I were worried,
what would happen if I lost it? I was determined to take a stand for my meetings.
I spoke to my boss and explained my decision, but he refused to compromise. I was shocked.
I didn't think this was how it was supposed to go. How would I support my family? Paul studied the
Bible with me. We've been close ever since. He invited me out, and I guess he'd heard about what
happened. He really listened as I poured out my concerns. I wondered if I should have just done
what my boss insisted. I would have missed my meeting, but I still could have attended an evening
meeting and a different congregation. My skills were limited, and there just weren't that many
jobs out there for me. I told him I was seriously considering a job that would involve a lot of
travel. Paul read to me from Matthew chapter 6 verses 25 to 33. Stop being anxious about your
lives as to what you will eat or what you will drink or about your bodies as to what you will wear.
Keep on then seeking first the kingdom and his righteousness, and all these other things will be added
to you. He reminded me that as a newly baptized witness, my prayers are much more readily received,
and Jehovah was ready to respond. He encouraged me to include Jehovah in my decision. Patients
is not easy for me, but I decided to look to Jehovah to provide the right job,
so every day I kept looking, but work never came. I never thought that it would go on
so long. Eventually, I had to go on unemployment insurance so we could get by.
I knew that I was doing the right thing, but I couldn't help feeling that I was letting my family
down. One night, I was reminded of Jesus words in Matthew chapter 6. Observe intently the birds of
heaven. They do not so seed or reap or gather into storehouses, yet your heavenly Father feeds them.
Are you not worth more than they are? I realized that I was still relying on myself,
and not fully throwing my anxiety on Jehovah. My skills may be limited, but Jehovah's are not.
So I kept on looking, but I used my extra time to auxiliary pioneer. It was just what I needed.
Eventually, Jehovah opened the door and blessed my patience with a job that was nearby
with good hours for my meetings. I even had more time for the ministry with my family.
It was not an easy experience, but my faith in Jehovah was stronger than ever.
I saw him act in my behalf, and I know that he really does care for me and my family.
Did you notice how the brother honored Jehovah with his valuable things? For one,
he sacrificed his job, so as not to interfere with spiritual activities. And second,
although he was unemployed, he took the opportunity to auxiliary pioneer. He was balanced,
keeping his spiritual focus while diligently seeking other employment.
Jehovah made sure that the brother and his family had what they needed. And in time,
he was blessed with another job. Although many of our construction projects are the result of growth
in a branch territory, our donations also are put to good use when disaster strike.
The organization is quick to respond to the needs of our brothers and sisters in affected areas.
This includes the distribution of release supplies. It also involves helping our brothers repair
or rebuild their homes and kingdom halls. This was the case in 2011 when a large tornado ripped
through the state of Missouri in the United States. When a disaster strikes, the disaster relief
does takes the lead in caring for the needs of the field. This is done by using volunteers.
Our brothers know how to work together. We're using volunteers that are used to crawling over each
other and working in a kingdom hall. So they have the ability to get into a disaster situation
and take direction and just take care of it. It's an evaluation process to see what's needed.
Then the purchasing department locally will then go ahead and start buying materials. Those will
be delivered and volunteers will come to prepare the home back to livable conditions so that our
brothers and sisters can get back into their homes. So we stabilize the friends, we stabilize the
houses and we can stabilize the congregation. We had a group of brothers that went in to
drop them as early after the tornado destroyed 30% of the city. We had probably 30, 40 volunteers
working on the house and a woman comes down the street from the neighborhood. She sees all the
volunteers working. She thinks it's a construction organization. She says, can I pay you to come over
and fix my garage? It was basically a shed that had been picked up off the slab and turned
upside down and moved a few feet away from the slab. So the brothers said, well, let's go take a
look at it. So they went over and they took a look at it and it wasn't that hard. The shed was
still intact. They said, we could do this in a few minutes. So they went and got all their volunteers.
They went over, they picked the shed up. They got about 30 brothers on it and they turned it over
and put it on the slab. And the woman was so thankful. She says, okay, so what do I owe you? They
said, no, we're all volunteers. Where Joe is, witnesses, we're working through the local kingdom hall
here, a relief center. And she says, you're kidding me. You're all volunteers. She says, yeah,
and we're out. She says, what are you doing here? So we're out working on our brothers and sisters
homes and trying to help them get stabilized. She was in tears. She came back down the street a few
minutes later with a lot of money in her hand. She said, I want to tell you a story. She says, I called
my church after this happened. And I asked them to come work, do this work for me to put this shed
back on its slab. They said, we can do that. We'll be there in about three weeks and it's going
to cost you this much. She says, and here you folks come over to my house. You don't charge me.
You don't even know who I am. And you put my home back together. What I needed have done.
She says, here's the money. You have this. You put it in your contribution box. When someone helps
in building a kingdom hall, when someone helps in building an assembly hall, when someone
aids in caring for a natural disaster, their lives are changed forever. When someone is benefited
by one of these programs, their lives are changed forever. The love demonstrated in the organization
is truly faith strengthening to see. The same arrangement to respond to disasters
is in place all around the world. It is your contributions that make this possible.
For this, we sincerely thank you. But as stated earlier, we provide help in many other ways
by means of our voluntary donations. The primary focus, though, is helping people spiritually.
In contrast to Jova's organization, many publishing companies do not provide literature for the
blind. Why? Well, they've determined that it has not cost effective. However, Jova wants
everyone to have a hope for the future. Notice how our organization works hard to make the truth
more readily available for those who are blind. I can't wait to see birds. I can't wait to see
their little beaks chirp when I hear the sound of them. I was fully sighted until I was nine,
and then gradually started losing my sight. When I was young, I loved skiing. I skied and enjoyed
the outdoors. We're really very busy in our life. We have my mother who's 85 and my aunt who's 92
that live here also. So we have their lives to work around doctors and meals. We have our Theocratic
life, and we have our studies, our field service, our personal study. I lead a very, very full life. I
just happened to be blind. In my early 30s, I lost the use of my right eye. It was quite sudden,
and I went to the doctor and following the examination. He took me into his office and let me know that
I would be blind in both eyes, and its immediate response by me was fear. But it was the ministry
that gave me the greatest strength and confidence to go forward. Throughout the United States branch
territory, there are about 20 million persons that are either blind or suffer from low vision.
And in response to that, the organization has produced braille literature and a number of languages,
also audio files, as well as electronic screen reader files.
Our principal function is to transcribe publications into braille. The transcription is done
electronically by a program that has been produced in-house and is part of the Watchtower
translation system. We produce braille files that can be embossed into paper publications.
The screen reader and no-taker files are uploaded to the JW.org website
for use by blind and visually impaired persons. Not being able to read
and having to learn to get the spiritual truths in in a different way is quite a challenge.
That's where the audio recordings being able to hear, I am able to do exactly what I used to.
First Corinthians 9.22 says, I have become all things to people of all sorts that I might
by all possible means save some. And we've taken those words to heart. We want persons outside of
our organization to benefit from the literature that we are producing for the blind.
Now after attending an expo for the blind, Janet recognized the vast potential that exists
in the blind community for the good news. The amount of blind people at the expo,
it was astounding. And the first thing that we thought of was these people need Jehovah.
And immediately we came home and we called Bethel and told them what we saw.
We appointed a sign language circuit officer to organize our participation at the event.
And this was also beneficial because some persons who attended are both blind and deaf.
Thus could only benefit from tactile sign language.
We got together the week before and discussed how we were going to set up a table in the booth.
Some blind people prefer braille and others prefer audio. So we had to have both available for them.
Anything that would attract those who are blind. So they would come up to the table.
They could feel the braille and literature. They could feel the visual aids. They could listen
to a scripture about God's hope for the future. So everything was tailored to those who
are blind or visually impaired. Our participation at these expos has been tremendously successful.
Many times these individuals that are present are learning the truth for the first time.
61% of the people that we talked to gave us their contact information.
Everyone was very appreciative. They all enjoyed what we had to show them and teach them.
Many of them left the booth with multiple pieces of literature.
Some of those who approached the booth were so appreciative. They gave us hugs.
They saw them sat down right then there and had their first study.
It was a very special experience and it felt like we were opening a new form of ministry.
It felt like we were contacting a group of people that hadn't had the opportunity to know
what to hold before. They can see the truth. They can see the ring of truth in their mind's eyes.
So many people thank us for being there. This ministry is really unbelievable.
It's unlike anything I've done in my life. This is just one of many examples
that shows how innovative witnessing initiatives can help people of all backgrounds and
circumstances to draw close to Jehovah. One of our favorite segments on this program
is hearing how our brothers and sisters came in contact with the truth. Oftentimes the truth
completely transformed their lives. We are happy to share one such story with you now.
Brother John Lewis was raised in a non-religious household. However, he was exposed to the truth
at a young age. But what caused him to later draw closer to Jehovah? And how does his story tie in
with our theme for this month, honor Jehovah with your valuable things? Brother Lewis himself
will answer that question for us. American motorcycles for my passion. We'd make them louder,
faster, and lots of chrome. It wasn't just the bike. I had a great American sports car. I had a
brand new house. I had a good job. Really, I had the American dream. And I had a great life. I was
always looking for fun, and I always seemed to find it. Even though I thought I had everything,
there was still something missing. The Vietnam War was brewing, it was raging. People were dying,
and it really bothered me. When I was six years old, my aunt, who just became a witness,
she showed me this book. And there's a picture inside, I remember so well, it's a Varma
Getten. And that scares a little kid. I thought, I don't want to be there. But a few pages later,
there's a picture of the paradise. I never forgot it. Now I always thought, I wanted to be there
someday. So I thought, maybe my aunt has something. What have I got to lose? So I called her and said,
send over some witnesses. So I had a couple of studies with the brother, but it didn't really make
sense yet, and my lifestyle hadn't changed. I was 21 right in my motorcycle, doing about 75 miles
an hour, because speed limits were for whims. I hit a park truck, I nearly died. And as a result,
I now use this to walk. Two days prior, I actually had witnesses over, but then my aunt invited me to
a special talk given by the Watchtower Society's president in San Francisco. And I said, okay, I'll see.
Well, you can remember, this time the drug culture was in full swing, and it was part of my life, too.
And so I partied, got home after 2 a.m., but I tried something. I prayed to Jehovah. I said,
if you're real, if this is true, give me up in the morning. Well, at 6 a.m., I woke up,
could not sleep, and I thought, this is really weird. And so I thought, I better go. So I went with
my aunt to this function, and I thought, if nothing else, I'll just check out the chicks. Hey, I was 21,
but you when I found when I got there, everybody paid attention. When they brothers said,
to turn to a scripture, they all turned to that scripture. It was such a unified group of
harmony, something that I always wanted. So I made rapid changes in my life. I soon qualified to go
out in the public preaching. Soon after that, I was baptized. And six months later, I started in the
full-time ministry. And so for over 40 years now, my wife and I have enjoyed this work of going
door to door and teaching others the Bible. In 1998, I was dignified with the opportunity to serve
as the Apostle Paul did, visiting and encouraging congregations. I've had the chance to do that in
different parts of the United States as a traveling overseer. So really, I've gone from a life of
pursuit of happiness that never found it. I tried to make it happen, but it wasn't there.
Now I have a life of purpose. I have a family worldwide, and I have a secure future. What's better
than that? Did you notice how Brother Lewis's story ties in with our theme for this month?
Brother and sister Lewis have served in the circuit work since 1998. As special full-time
servants, they are honoring Jehovah to the full with their time and energy. We truly appreciate
our hard-working circuit overseers and their wives. Something that makes our literature so unique
is the unity it produces. Our literature doesn't focus just on one country or one continent.
Instead, it fulfills the spiritual needs of our brothers and sisters worldwide.
How is that accomplished? One very important factor is that branches around the world contribute
to the content that we publish. Let's visit one such branch and find out more.
The governing body of Jehovah's Witnesses provides spiritual food throughout
publications and websites. The writing desk supplies material to the writing department
at the World Headquarters for Publication. We also archive historical material.
Newspaper creepings and experiences are sorted and filed in cabinets. These are translated into
English and sent to the writing department at the World Headquarters. Also, we arranged a shooting
of photographs for articles. These photographs help us to get a better understanding of what is
being taught. The archive team collects historical material of the witnesses in Japan,
such as photos, fabrications from the early days, and other mementos which brothers have donated.
We take protective measures to save these precious items from damages close by such things as
light and humidity. Also, we computerize our collection of items numbering tens of thousands
so that we can immediately find any of them from the database. We use these items for exhibition
displays as well as video programs produced at this branch or at the World Headquarters.
Like a family album of memories, the collection in the archives tells us much about our spiritual
family, about their faith, courage, joys, challenges, and about Jehovah's guidance and support.
After a publication is published or a video is produced, considerable effort is
expended to make it available in hundreds of languages. As we mentioned earlier in the program,
170 remote translation offices need to be constructed in the next two years alone.
The purpose is to make sure people from all over the world have access to Bible truth.
Revelation chapter 7 verse 9 speaks of a great crowd composed of many tongues or as the
foodnot reads, languages. This Bible prophecy has taken on new meaning in the past century of
Kingdom rule, with translation now taking place in over 700 languages. Many of these languages
are operating from remote translation offices or RTOs. One example is the country of Mozambique.
These offices are located in the area where the language is spoken rather than at the branch.
Remote translation office guidelines outline how the branch committee works along with the
writing committee, publishing committee, translation services, and the worldwide design construction
department in considering relocating or starting a translation team in a remote location.
RTOs are presently functioning in different ways in various parts of the world.
At times, the personnel live in one location and work in another.
This includes using full-time and part-time commuters for both translation and support services.
The standard of facilities provided or the operation of the RTO may not be the same as the local
branch. At times, the fastest way to start operation is to rent or purchase existing facilities
and if needed, carry out renovation work. For example, this method was used to acquire the
housing units for the American Sign Language RTO in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. If building a new
RTO with the only option in an area, the standard plans have been developed for use.
Construction servants work along with the regional design construction departments in planning
a project and then traveling to the chosen location and working along with local construction
servants and volunteers in building the RTO. RTO construction gives both the local brothers and
construction workers the joy of knowing they also are playing a part in reaching the hearts of
people in their language. The positive results in constructing RTOs is experienced by those involved
in their construction and those who translate from them. We just love the project. The RTO family
is so much fun to work with, it's a small family and so as we're caring for the needs of each
other throughout the days and the weeks and the months, we just really find a lot of joy in it.
It's been a ton of fun and we get to do it all in the shadow of a palm tree.
The greatest joy is that our brothers gave off their energy and above all, they work with much
happiness for Jehovah. Our recent relocation to the RTO home and office will fit so many of our
translation needs going forward. It helps us to hear and to speak the language every day because
we use it in the ministry and as meetings. So that helps us to translate in a way our audience
can easily understand. When you go out in the ministry, you'll find that there are so many different ways
something can be said so you can have flavor in your translation work as well. Attending a
congregation meeting with so many deaf really helps with translation. Being in the audience when
the information is presented at the meetings, a translator can see by the facial expressions of
those around him if the information is clear and understandable. Seeing them comment gives us an
insight into whether they really understand. In just the last few years, over 300 articles have
been established worldwide. We have had of us plans for over 100 RTOs to be established in the
next few years. Jehovah is truly blessing this work so that people of all languages in the most
distant parts of the earth may come to know him. Our objective has always been to make our literature
available to as many people as possible. Recently, a secular book fair was arranged in the city of
Guadalajara in Mexico. Our brothers thought it would be the perfect opportunity to help the visitors
learn more about the best book ever written. The Bibles. Preaching where the people are is crucial
and here there are thousands. In a short time, we can reach people that we wouldn't normally find
at home. A lot of young people have visited us here. I really like how you have it set up with book
summer shirts. Teenagers have a lot of questions, but they don't ask them. If God is so powerful,
why does He let us suffer? That's a question that a lot of people ask themselves since we think of
God as the Almighty. And a lot of times, that's why many people lose their faith. One of my students is
a Jehovah's Witness. I was once able to get a hold of a copy of the book, Young People Ask,
and I found the information there very interesting, very complete. It's really helped me in particular
to raise my daughters. Many people were surprised to learn that our publications are distributed
completely free of charge. What cut my attention is your generosity, offering publications without
expecting anything in return. In fact, one person even seemed a bit annoyed. He said,
how is it possible that you don't charge for this? He said, this is worth a lot. We were very
surprised by the public's response. Around 30,000 publications were distributed. In fact, just
between volumes one and two of the book, Young People Ask, answers that work. Some 8,000 copies
were placed. One of the main objectives of our booth was to draw attention to the content on
our JW.org website. To begin with, what really caught my attention with the video.
What has really drawn people's attention is they're being able to watch the videos for themselves
that really attracts them. Kids learn through videos. So it's very important for us as humans
to teach our kids values using these different tools.
As parents, our duty is to mold our children to persons with good principles, good values.
A teacher watched the whiteboard animation videos and that's what most impressed her.
She said she's going to use them in a classroom. From what I saw, to me the site is very good,
very educational. I think it's great. You can help thousands of people right from the intimacy
of their homes, or they're comfortable to consult Bible-based information. If they had knocked
on my door, I probably would have shouldn't on them. But I think this method is very different.
To me, it's a lot more dynamic. I was one of those persons who would just take the literature and
I was like, just leave it with me. Maybe I'll read it later. I think that when we get a hold of
a tablet or a laptop and we start opening web pages and especially the Jehovah's Witnesses site,
you start seeing what you need without having to ask questions and especially because the pages
are so eye-catching. What's happening here is really important and I think what you people are
doing is great. I was a completely different person before but this has helped my family to be
more united. But fine results will undoubtedly come from this new initiative. The Central
America branch received approval from the service committee of the governing body for this event.
Such requests are reviewed on a case-by-case basis. We discussed earlier the new program
for the entire brotherhood to share and funding the building of Kingdom Halls.
Congregations with less financial resources would otherwise never be able to afford to build
an appropriate Kingdom Hall. But with our joint efforts, it is possible and very much appreciated.
The fact is highlighted in this report that was recently given to the Bethel families
in the United States and Canada. This year, Leonard and I had the privilege to travel to
Southeast Africa and visit the branches in Madagascar, Mauritius and Zimbabwe. Our first
stop was Madagascar. Madagascar is simply a wonderful branch for preaching. There are 30,400
publishers conducting over 79,000 Bible studies. What helps is that the Madagascar people have a
tremendous appreciation and respect for the Bible. It is not uncommon for individuals to give a
donation for our literature with the last bit of money they have in their pockets, even if it
means that they will have no money for the next day. Their typical response is, it's okay,
it's for God. And that level of appreciation has resulted in many progressive Bible studies.
One experience involved an elderly pastor named Lefty. He met Jehovah's Witnesses for the first
time in a neighboring village about 20 miles away from where he lived. He readily accepted a
Bible study and even urged members in his church to travel to the meetings with him when they
could. Well, sadly, Lefty became sick and died. However, before his death, he instructed the 74
members of his church that they should never leave Jehovah's Witnesses because they really read
and studied the Bible and they truly have the true religion. He even left his house for them to
use as a place for worship. Well, did they heed his advice? They did. Every Sunday, a group would
meet together in Lefty's house and with no one to study the Bible with them and not always
able to travel to 20 miles to the neighboring village, they took whatever watchtowers they had
and each week someone delivered a talk on one of the articles. They knew a few Kingdoms songs
from attending the meetings, so they just sung what they remembered. Two months ago,
special pioneers were sent to this village. This picture shows many of the children who live in
the village and that's Lefty's house in the background. The pioneers reported that 78 people
were regularly attending the meetings in Lefty's house. They found that some in the group were drunkards,
smokers, tradition followers, but they had all made changes in their lives from what they read
reading the watchtower. The house built by Lefty was now too small. They had to use a public school
for the meetings. And of course, when the pioneers came, Bible studies were started right away.
In fact, the folks in this village were so excited about studying the Bible that instead of waiting
for the pioneers to come to their home, they all went to the home of the pioneers. They sit in the
yard and they check in just like a doctor's office and they sit and wait until it's their turn to
study. It really is a beautiful thing to see how Jehovah can draw his people to him.
One of the highlights of this visit were the children who came to the branch to sing or record the
Malagasy rendition of song number 95, which is Taste and Sea that Jehovah is good. And as you know,
this song was recently posted on JW.org. So we thought you might enjoy seeing part of that rehearsal.
Our next stop was Mauritius. The first Bethel in Mauritius was established in 1988. But since 1997,
they relocated to the beautiful facilities that you see here in the pictures. And there are 40
brothers and sisters that make up the Bethel family. The women are truly a large army in Mauritius
of the nearly 1,800 publishers, 116 are pioneers and on that number over 100 are sisters.
They work so hard to carry out their ministry and they engage in various forms from public
witnessing to preaching in the mountains. And Jehovah is truly blessing their efforts. They are
doing this with much good success. Much of the work in the Mauritius branch involves translations
and something that has had a tremendous impact on the brothers was receiving for the first time
the songbook in their native language, Mauritian Creole. And a number were able to express their
feelings of appreciation. Jehovah has blessed us so much. I'm so grateful. It's a wonderful gift
from Jehovah. We've got the songbook on our mother tongue. We can really praise Jehovah. We are
very happy that we've got the songbook on our mother tongue. Our final stop was in Bobway.
Zimbabwe continues to be a buzz from the success of last year's International Convention.
And evidence of this has been the amount of increase in many aspects of the ministry. This includes
all-time peaks in magazine placements, Bible studies, and memorial attendance. One nice experience
involves a 20-year-old young woman named Blessed. She obtained literature for one of our preaching
cards and she was drawn to the truth right away. She was a progressive student and quickly began
attending the meetings. In fact, Blessed was so touched by what she saw and heard at the meetings.
It moved her to approach a sister in the congregation and expressed to her just how fortunate she was to
be raised by Christian parents. When Blessed was given the invitation to attend the convention,
she readily accepted. But imagine the scene on the first day of the convention
when she bumps into her parents during the intermission. Both were equally surprised to see the other.
But Blessed was so excited. She began interrogating her father with a barrage of questions.
And so she started asking him, well, what are you doing here? Who in mind is you? How did you know
about this? Why did you never say anything? Well, the father could not bear the interrogation
anymore and he eventually confessed, your mother and I are Jehovah's Witnesses. We've been
inactive since you were born. In fact, your mother used to serve as a regular pioneer.
What is your going to imagine the young woman was in total disbelief and later admitted just how
angry she was at her parents for not raising her and her siblings in the truth.
But this motivated her to progress even more. In four months, she qualified to become an unbaptized
publisher. She ended her relationship with her boyfriend, even had the courage to terminate her
employment since she worked for an organization that was against Bible principles. She became
baptized and the best part is her parents who were clearly affected by her example have since been
reactivated. Even one of her siblings who used to make fun of her for studying the Bible is now
an unbaptized publisher. Another aspect of the work that is meeting with good success is the
building of Kingdom Halls. It is very difficult to get construction servants into Zimbabwe so much
of the work is done by local brothers and as you'll know it from these clips, the work that they
have been able to accomplish is tremendous. Currently, a Kingdom Hall can be completed in six weeks
in the rural areas and two to three months in other locations. And over the past year,
12 Kingdom Halls have been built and another 115 are scheduled across the country.
It was a rainy season in Zimbabwe during the week of the branch visit and it rained all day
every day and some of the hardest rains were on the day of the special program. But despite
the inclement conditions, 29,411 were in attendance and it was just so touching to see so many paying
attention and all the smiling joyful faces despite the unfavorable conditions. It even moved
one news reporter who was there covering the program to ask, what is it about you people?
How is it that this many people would come together to sit in the rain, to listen to some talks
about the Bible? Well, the brothers quickly arranged for someone to follow up on his interest.
The visit to these branches was evidence that Jehovah is accomplishing wonderful things and
blessing the work and the diligent efforts of his people. And all along the way, the brothers
and sisters enthusiastically expressed their love and appreciation for Jehovah to the governing
body and all of the hard work that is being done and accomplished by the Beltal families here in
the United States as well as in Canada. And it is such a privilege to be able to pass on to you
their warm love and greetings. Don't you agree that this program has provided us with a number of
examples of how we can honor Jehovah with our valuable things? Yes, we can give of our time,
our skills and other resources to further kingdom interest. As a summary, we will enjoy
beautiful music video entitled, yes, you guessed it, honor Jehovah with your valuable things.
Here's what I will do. I'll give to you Jehovah the best I have to give.
I'll live for you Jehovah as long as I may live. No matter my valuable life and I treasure the joy
that it pray. One more can I do to give long and to give you. Yes, I know. So with each day that
prays, but I will do as long as I may live. Proverbs 39 are etched in our minds and hearts
after this month's program. We want to give our first fruits to Jehovah.
May all of us take the time to prayerfully consider what we can do to continue to live up to our
dedication to Jehovah in all of the areas we have discussed. To conclude our program,
we would like to share these greetings from the Tallinn North congregation in the country of
Estonia. The 101 publishers meet in a kingdom hall in the Medieval Old Town. Their territory
is visited every year by thousands of tourists and foreign students and the congregation makes full
use of literature carts in their ministry. There are 14 congregations in the city of Tallinn
that meet in three separate kingdom hall complexes. The work in Estonia is supervised by the Finland
branch, but there is a remote translation office in the country, which also hosts classes of the
School for Kingdom Evangelizers. Students come from nearby countries such as Finland and Russia.
Although these images were recorded earlier this year when it was colder, a special convention
is planned in Tallinn this summer, when it will be much warmer. Our Estonian brothers and sisters
are giving of their valuable things and preparing to welcome the international delegates
when they arrive in July. We love you all very much and thank you for joining us this month.
This is JW Broadcasting from Brooklyn, New York.